MYSHELL(1)                  General Commands Manual                 MYSHELL(1)

NAME

          myshell

SYNOPSIS

          myshell [command | file]

DESCRIPTION

          Myshell takes input from command line and executes those commands/processes.

ARGUMENTS

          Myshell is executed with: ./myshell
          An optional batch file with commands in it is possible with: ./myshell batchfile

INVOCATION

          Myshell prompts user for imput if no file is provided and executes the provided commands.

USAGE

          For user input run ./myshell with no additional arguments to manually enter
          commands and execute them. Or supply a batchfile and have the commands
          execute automatically.

COMMANDS

          Here is a list of the built-in commands and thier functions.

	      cd              Allows user to change to specified directory. If no directory is
                          supplied it displays the current directory.
            clr             Clears the screen.
            dir             Lists all contents of current directory.
            environ         Lists all the environment variables.
            echo            Prints provided statement to the command line.
            help            Displays the man page.
            pause           Pauses the shell and waits for enter key to be pressed.
            quit            Exits the shell.

ENVIRONMENT

          An environment variable's value is set outside of the program using functionality
          that is often provided by the operating system or a microservice. Any number of
          environment variables may be created and made accessible for use at one time; each
          environment variable consists of a name/value pair. 

I/O REDIRECTION

          I/O Redirection is a very useful feature available
          in myshell. The following is an example of how to use I/O Redirection.

                < filename    input from file               (command) < (input file)
                > filename    output truncated to file      (command) > (output file)
                >> filename   output appended to file       (command) >> (output file)

          Can also combine input and output. For example:

                (command) < (input file) >> (outputfile)

BACKGROUND AND FOREGROUND PROCCESSES

          When a foreground process is executed the shell waits for the process to
          complete before prompting the user again.

          Background processes are executed, and user is instantly prompted for input
          again. The process continues to run in background until it is complete.
          - Background process is executed by adding '&' add end of line.

REFERENCES
            
            Kerrick, M. (2010) The Linux Programming Interface. 1st Edition. Place of publication:  No Starch Press.
            Silberschatz, A., Galvin, PB. and Gagne, G (2018) Operating Systems Concepts. 10th Edition. Place of publication: Wiley.
            Kernighan, BW. and Ritchie, DM. (1988) The C Programming Language. 2nd Edition. Place of publication: Pearson.
            
            BASH and ZSH man Pages.		

STATEMENT OF NON-PLAGIARISM

          Name: Ethan Kavanagh

          Student Number: 21344873

          Acknowledgement of the DCU Academic Integrity Policy:
          I understand that the University regards breaches of academic integrity and plagiarism as grave 
          and serious. I have read and understood the DCU Academic Integrity and Plagiarism Policy. I accept
          the penalties that may be imposed should I engage in practice or practices that breach this policy. 
          I have identified and included the source of all facts, ideas, opinions and viewpoints of others
          in the assignment references. Direct quotations, paraphrasing, discussion of ideas from books,
          journal articles, internet sources, module text, or any other source whatsoever are acknowledged
          and the sources cited are identified in the assignment references. I declare that this material,
          which I now submit for assessment, is entirely my own work and has not been taken from the work of
          others save and to the extent that such work has been cited and acknowledged within the text of my
          work. I have used the DCU library referencing guidelines and/or the appropriate referencing system
          recommended in the assignment guidelines and/or programme documentation.
